Fix to issue #27 (#29)
informalsystems/partnership-heliax: 2022/Q3/artifacts/PoS-pseudocode/PoS-model.md

  var delunbonds = {<start,end,amount> | amount = unbonds[delegator_address][validator_address].deltas[(start, end)] > 0 && end <= cur_epoch }
  //substract any pending slash before withdrawing
  forall (<start,end,amount> in selfunbonds) do

>     var amount_after_slashing = amount

Reviewer: Was this mistakenly removed? L305 below updates `amount_after_slashing`, except now this variable isn't declared explicitly anywhere

Author: My fault, the intention is that line 305 declares it (just missing the `var` keyword). Fixed. Thanks ;)

    var slashed_amount = 0

>     var previous_slash_epoch = -1
>     forall (slash in slashes[validator_address] in slash.epoch order s.t. start <= slash.epoch && slash.epoch <= end)
>       if previous_slash_epoch == -1 || previous_slash_epoch + unbonding_length < slash.epoch do
>         updated_amount = amount - slashed_amount
>       slashed_amount += updated_amount*slash.rate
>       previous_slash_epoch = slash.epoch

Reviewer 2: I think a naive approach that works for more than 2 slashes (e.g. 3 slashes where no 2 consecutive slashes have `unbonding_length` epochs between them, but the first and the last slash do) with another loop would be something like:
```suggestion
    forall (slash in slashes[validator_address] in slash.epoch order s.t. start <= slash.epoch && slash.epoch <= end) do

      //Update amount with slashes that happened more than `unbonding_length` before this slash
      forall (other_slash in slashes[validator_address] s.t. start <= other_slash.epoch && other_slash.epoch + unbonding_length < slash.end) do
        updated_amount = amount - updated_amount*other_slash.rate

      slashed_amount += updated_amount*slash.rate

```

Author: > I think a naive approach that works for more than 2 slashes (e.g. 3 slashes where no 2 consecutive slashes have `unbonding_length` epochs between them, but the first and the last slash do) with another loop would be something like:

I think it does not work. I tried to run it with 4 infractions that occurred at epochs `e`, `e+1`, `e+unbonding_lenght+1`, and `e+unbonding_lenght+2`. Assume that a user has `x` tokens delegated to the misbehaving validator by `e`, and unbonds them and attempts to withdraw at an epoch > `e+2*unbonding_lenght+2` i.e., all infractions have been processed. Assume the slash rate is 0.2 for all infractions.

- The slashed amount of infraction 1 should be `0.2*x`.
- The slashed amount of infraction 2 should be `0.2*x`. This is because infraction 1 is not processed at `e+1`: the epoch of infraction 2.
- The slashed amount of infraction 3 should be `0.2*0.8*x=0.16*x`. This is because infraction 1 has been processed at `e+unbonding_lenght+1`: the epoch of infraction 3; but not infraction 2.
- The slashed amount of infraction 4 should be `0.2*0.6*x=0.12*x`. This is because infraction 1 and 2 have been processed at `e+unbonding_lenght+2`: the epoch of infraction 4; but not infraction 3.

I think running your pseudocode, we get the slashed amount of infraction 4 wrong:
After processing the third slash, `updated_amount = x - 0.2*x = 0.8*x`. Then, while processing the fourth we take the following steps:
- `updated_amount=x - 0.2*0.8*x=0.84*x`
- `updated_amount=x - 0.2*0.84*x=x-0.168*x=0.832*x`
-  `slashed_amount= 0.2*0.832*x=0.1664*x` and it should be `0.12*x`

I may have made a mistake in the calculations (or maybe there is a bug in your pseudocode). I am proposing an alternative that I think works (maybe not the most efficient solution):

```go
forall (<start,end,amount> in selfunbonds) do
    
    var computed_amounts = {}
    forall (slash in slashes in slash.epoch order s.t. start <= slash.epoch && slash.epoch <= end) do
      var updated_amount = amount
      //Update amount with slashes that happened more than `unbonding_length` before this slash
      forall (slashed_amount in computed_amounts s.t. slashed_amount.epoch + unbonding_length < slash.epoch) do
        updated_amount -= slashed_amount.amount
      computed_amounts = add(computed_amounts, SlashedAmount{epoch: slash.epoch, amount: updated_amount*slash.rate})

    var amount_after_slashing = amount - sum({computed_amount.amount | computed_amount in computed_amounts})
    balance[delegator_address] += amount_after_slashing
    balance[pos] -= amount_after_slashing
```
@tzemanovic what do you think?

Author: A couple of minor changes that improve things a bit:

```go
    var computed_amounts = {}
    var updated_amount = amount
    forall (slash in slashes in slash.epoch order s.t. start <= slash.epoch && slash.epoch <= end) do
      //Update amount with slashes that happened more than `unbonding_length` before this slash
      forall (slashed_amount in computed_amounts s.t. slashed_amount.epoch + unbonding_length < slash.epoch) do
        updated_amount -= slashed_amount.amount
        computed_amounts = computed_amounts \ {slashed_amount}
      computed_amounts = computed_amounts \union {SlashedAmount{epoch: slash.epoch, amount: updated_amount*slash.rate}}

    var amount_after_slashing = updated_amount - sum({computed_amount.amount | computed_amount in computed_amounts})
    balance[delegator_address] += amount_after_slashing
    balance[pos] -= amount_after_slashing
```

Reviewer 2: ah I see! I think I was meaning to do `updated_amount = updated_amount - updated_amount*other_slash.rate`, but even that would have been wrong as that would reapply `other_slash`es multiple times.

`computed_amounts = computed_amounts \ {slashed_amount}` removes `slashed_amount` from the set, right? Your solutions LGTM!

Author: > `computed_amounts = computed_amounts \ {slashed_amount}` removes `slashed_amount` from the set, right?

Yes!

> our solutions LGTM!

Awesome, I'll work on the TLA+ version :)
